developers/networks: update current network plans (#9191)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/docs/networks/index.md

You should test any contract code you write on a testnet before deploying to Mainnet. Among dapps that integrate with existing smart contracts, most projects have copies deployed to testnets.

> Most testnets started by using a permissioned proof-of-authority consensus mechanism. This means a small number of nodes are chosen to validate transactions and create new blocks – staking their identity in the process. Alternatively, some testnets feature an open proof-of-stake consensus mechanism where everyine can test running a validator, just like Ethereum Mainnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most testnets started by using a permissioned proof-of-authority consensus mechanism. This means a small number of nodes are chosen to validate transactions and create new blocks – staking their identity in the process. Alternatively, some testnets feature an open proof-of-stake consensus mechanism where everyone can test running a validator, just like Ethereum Mainnet.
```

ETH on testnets has no real value; therefore, there are no markets for testnet ETH. Since you need ETH to actually interact with Ethereum, most people get testnet ETH from faucets. Most faucets are webapps where you can input an address which you request ETH to be sent to.

#### Which Testnet should I use?

> The two public testnets which client developers are maintaining post-merge are Goerli and Sepolia. The Goerli network is targeting protocol developers to test network upgrades and stakers to test running validators. Sepolia, on the other hand, is a permissioned network targeting contract and application developers.

Reviewer 2: How about swapping the order?
```suggestion
The two public testnets that client developers are currently maintaining are Sepolia and Goerli. Sepolia is a network for contract and application developers to test their applications. The Goerli network lets protocol developers test network upgrades, and lets stakers test running validators.
```

- New testnet, less applications deployed than other testnets
- Fast to sync and running a node requires minimal disk space

> **Resources**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Resources
```
Using bold for headings is an antipattern

- [Website](https://sepolia.dev/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/eth-clients/sepolia)
- [Otterscan](https://sepolia.otterscan.io/)
- [Etherscan](https://sepolia.etherscan.io)

> **Faucets**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Faucets
```
Using bold for headings is an antipattern

- [Grabteeth](https://grabteeth.xyz/)
- [PoW faucet](https://sepolia-faucet.pk910.de/)
- [Sepolia faucet](https://faucet.sepolia.dev/)
- [FaucETH](https://fauceth.komputing.org)

#### Goerli _(long-term support)_ {#goerli}

_Note: [the Goerli testnet is deprecated](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/proposal-predictable-ethereum-testnet-lifecycle/11575/17) and will be replaced by [Holesovice](https://github.com/eth-clients/holesovice) in 2023. Please consider migrating your applications to Sepolia._

[Goerli](#goerli) is testnet for testing of validating and staking  .
The Goerli network is open for users wanting to run a testnet validator. Stakers wanting to test protocol upgrades before they are deployed to mainnet should therefore use Goerli.

- Open validator set, stakers can test network upgrades
- Large state, useful for testing complex smart contract interactions
- Longer to sync and requires more storage to run a node

> **Resources**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Resources
```
Using bold for headings is an antipattern

- [Website](https://goerli.net/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/eth-clients/goerli)
- [Etherscan](https://goerli.etherscan.io)

> **Faucets**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Faucets
```
Using bold for headings is an antipattern

- [Grabteeth](https://grabteeth.xyz/)
- [PoW faucet](https://goerli-faucet.pk910.de/)
- [Goerli faucet](https://faucet.goerli.mudit.blog/)
- [Paradigm faucet](https://faucet.paradigm.xyz/)
- [Alchemy Goerli Faucet](https://goerlifaucet.com/)
- [All That Node Goerli Faucet](https://www.allthatnode.com/faucet/ethereum.dsrv)

To launch a Validator on Goerli testnet, use ethstaker's ["cheap goerli validator" launchpad](https://goerli.launchpad.ethstaker.cc/en/).

#### Rinkeby _(long-term support)_ {#rinkeby}

_Note: [the Rinkeby testnet is deprecated](https://blog.ethereum.org/2022/11/30/ropsten-shutdown-announcement) and will no longer receive protocol upgrades. Please consider migrating your applications to Sepolia._

A proof-of-authority testnet for those running old versions of the Geth client.

> **Faucets**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Faucets
```
Using bold for headings is an antipattern

- [FaucETH](https://fauceth.komputing.org) (multi-Chain faucet without the need for social account)
- [Chainlink faucet](https://faucets.chain.link/)
- [Paradigm faucet](https://faucet.paradigm.xyz/)
- [Rinkeby faucet](https://faucet.rinkeby.io/)

### Layer 2 testnets {#layer-2-testnets}

[Layer 2 (L2)](/layer-2/) is a collective term to describe a specific set of Ethereum scaling solutions. A layer 2 is a separate blockchain that extends Ethereum and inherits the security guarantees of Ethereum. Layer 2 testnets are usually tightly coupled to public Ethereum testnets.

#### Arbitrum Goerli {#arbitrum-goerli}

A testnet for [Arbitrum](https://arbitrum.io/).

> **Faucets**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Faucets
```
Using bold for headings is an antipattern

- [FaucETH](https://fauceth.komputing.org) (multi-Chain faucet without the need for social account)
- [Chainlink faucet](https://faucets.chain.link/)
- [Paradigm faucet](https://faucet.paradigm.xyz/)

#### Optimistic Goerli {#optimistic-goerli}

A testnet for [Optimism](https://www.optimism.io/).

> **Faucets**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Faucets
```
Using bold for headings is an antipattern
